---
title: "install_vm"
---
# Install VM {#Install-VM}

Virtual machines are basically some software which run just like a
regular PC but without any physical components. They use the *host*\'s
hardware equipments as a *guest*. Since ROS works best on Linux based
operating systems but we assume most of you have Windows PCs, we provide
this ready-to-use solution for you to start ROS as smooth as possible.

There will be two components:

1.  The virtual appliance
2.  A software to run the virtual appliance (VMware)

The admin password inside the virtual appliance is: **ros**

## Virtual Appliance

A virtual appliance is a copy of a working operating system and its
programs. We provide you ready-to-use virtual copy of what you need. To
download it, use [this
link](https://hvl365.sharepoint.com/:u:/s/RobotikkUndervisningHVL/Eb_Fy_CWLGNFkK0zY8PSimoBwOSer6dVaL8LRUHWVQUTNQ?e=llEm2S)
with your HVL credentials. After downloading, extract the folder inside
the .zip file.

## Virtual Appliance Player

A virtual appliance player is a software on which you can run your
virtual appliance (aka. a virtual copy of a system). We suggest you to
download VMware for this purpose.

### VMware Install

You can download VMware here: [Windows/Linux
download](https://www.vmware.com/products/workstation-player/workstation-player-evaluation.html),
[Mac
download](https://www.vmware.com/products/fusion/fusion-evaluation.html).
After installing it you can import the virtual appliance by clicking
**Open a Virtual Machine** and choose the .vmx file from inside the
previously downloaded and extracted folder.

After you finished importing the virual appliance, go to **Edit virtual
machine settings** and in Display settings enable **Accelerate 3D
graphics** and choose recommended Graphics Memory from the dropdown box
as shown in the pictures.

> ![VM-settings](VM-settings.png){.align-center}
>
> ![](../../_static/images/ros/VM-settings2.png){.align-center}

Also make sure, that in the **Network Adapter** settings, under
**Network connection**, **NAT** is selected, as shown in the pictures
below.

> ![](../../_static/images/ros/vm_network_settings.PNG){.align-center}

When first opening the virtual machine, the following window will
pop-up. Select **I Copied It** to continue.

> ![](../../_static/images/ros/vm_installation_popup.PNG){.align-center}

## Troubleshooting

::: note
::: title
Note
:::

For those who don\'t use the given virtual copy and choose to install
the necessary software and packages by themselves use the following
links: [Ubuntu 18.04 LTS](https://releases.ubuntu.com/18.04/), [ROS
Melodic](http://wiki.ros.org/melodic/Installation/Ubuntu), [Necessary
Turtlebot
packages](https://emanual.robotis.com/docs/en/platform/turtlebot3/quick-start/),
[MATLAB
2020a](https://se.mathworks.com/products/new_products/release2020a.html).
:::